Matt Chapman
Tech Lead & Senior Software Engineer

+64 27 628 2427

Charismatic and experienced Tech Lead and Senior Software Engineer with a passion for developer experience, software architecture, and mentorship / professional development.

Alongside my career in software engineering, I'm lucky to have experience as a commercial pilot, river guide, and search and rescue team leader.

My unique background allows me to approach the SDLC with exceptional holistic oversight, maintain calmness under pressure, and act confidently and decisively in critical scenarios.

PERSONAL INFORMATION
  Address: , , 
  Nationality: 
  Driving License: 
  Hobbies: Coding, mountain biking, sea kayaking, rock climbing, paragliding, music
f
d
s

SOCIAL PROFILES
  * github.com/mttchpmn: github.com/mttchpmn
  * linkedin.com/in/mttchpmn: linkedin.com/in/mttchpmn
  * instagram.com/mttchpmn: instagram.com/mttchpmn

LANGUAGES

SKILLS
  .NET
  GraphQL
  PostgreSQL
  Docker
  AWS
  React
  Node JS
  Git
  Bash
  Linux
  CSS
  Agile Methodologies
  API Design
  UX / UI Design
  People Leadership
  PowerShell

WORK EXPERIENCE
  * March 2022 – Present
    Technical Lead at First AML, Auckland, New Zealand
      
  Grew and developed a brand new team of four, a QA, a product manager, and a designer. 
  Actively mentored and grew members of my team through regular 1:1s, check-ins, and performance reviews
  Innovated and implemented new team processes and ways of working, resulting in increased engagement, observability, and productivity
  Acted as technical leader and escalation point for my engineering team, in addition to product team and other stakeholders
  Oversaw technical rollout of critical business projects in order to align with both technical and product roadmaps

Stack: C# / .NET, GraphQL, PostgreSQL, React, Docker, AWS

  * May 2021 – Present
    Senior BE Software Engineer at First AML, Auckland, New Zealand
      
  Managed technical development of complex business features, owning stakeholder communication, delivery timeframes, and rollout plans
  Operated independently to refactor legacy code, reduce technical debt, and improve developer experience in our code base
  Mentored and coached junior team members through code reviews, pair programming, and targeted discussion
  Provided technical guidance and approach reviews to other engineers and stakeholders
  Acted as Feature Lead for numerous high-profile and business-critical features, ensuring safe and timely release

Stack: C# / .NET, GraphQL, PostgreSQL, React, Docker, AWS

  * 2020 – 2021
    Full Stack Software Engineer at Clubware by Xplor, Auckland
      
  Implemented engineering and infrastructure changes to integrate third party APIs and services to existing SaaS platforms.
  Developed new APIs and toolsets for increasing test automation and system robustness. 
  Refactor and optimised existing legacy codebases to increase system stability, reliability, and developer experience.

Stack: React, Node JS, Dynamo DB, Serverless Stack, AWS, Docker

  * 2017 – 2020
    Founder & Technical Lead at Metscope, Auckland
      
  Identified a market niche in the aviation industry for a platform providing pilots and operators with a holistic view of all available weather and operational data.  
  Designed and implemented an API and web/mobile application platform and build pipeline. 
  Received early adoption and usage from 7 out of 9 aviation operators in Queenstown, when released as a Beta.

Stack: React, Node JS, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, Docker

  * 2019 – 2019
    Commercial Pilot (Aeroplane) at True South Flights, Queenstown
      
  Conducted safe and efficient scenic flights in GA8 Airvans on Part 135 operations between Queenstown, Milford Sound, and Mt Cook. 
  Developed new media and marketing solutions to improve brand engagement.
  Implemented new software tooling to increase operational situational awareness and safety margins.


  * 2017 – 2018
    Full Stack Developer & Designer at Wherewolf, Queenstown
      
  Developed pioneering hybrid web applications using Javascript and NodeJS.
  Produced and designed high quality brand and client collateral, as well as graphical assets. 
  Implemented new developer tooling, resulting in 96% time reductions in build pipelines. 

Stack: AngularJS, NodeJS, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, Docker


EDUCATION
  * 
    Learn To Fly NZ, Wanaka Commercial Pilot Licence (Aeroplane)
  * 
    Otago University, Dunedin Bachelor of Arts (Eng, Coms)

REFERENCES
  *  from 

COMPETENCIES
  * Commercial Pilot Licence (Aeroplane), , 
  * Class 1, 2, 4 & Passenger Driver Licences, , 
  * Search and Rescue Field Team Leader, , 
  *  Search and Rescue Wilderness First Aid, , 
  * NZ Rafting Association Swiftwater Rescue (Grade 3), , 
  * NZ Rafting Association Raft Guide (Grade 2), , 
  * Professional Guitarist and Vocalist, , 
